README.md, before:

# Single Page Applications Sprint Challenge

**Read these instructions carefully. Understand exactly what is expected _before_ starting this Sprint Challenge.**

This challenge allows you to practice the concepts and techniques learned over the past sprint and apply them in a concrete project. This sprint explored **single page applications**. During this sprint, you studied **routing, forms, and testing in cypress**. In your challenge this week, you will demonstrate your mastery of these skills by creating **Lambda Eats**, a website designed to bring food to hungry coders.

This is an individual assessment. All work must be your own. Your challenge score is a measure of your ability to work independently using the material covered through this sprint. You need to demonstrate proficiency in the concepts and objectives introduced and practiced in preceding days.

You are not allowed to collaborate during the sprint challenge. However, you are encouraged to follow the twenty-minute rule and seek support from your TL if you need direction.

## Full Time Students

_You have until 5pm PST to complete this challenge. The challenge is available from midnight on Thursday. However you should not be coding through the night; rather you can wake up on Friday and start coding at an hour you choose, rather than waiting for a unified start time. Ideally, you will be writing the majority of the code during the time block allocated on your calendar (9am to 1pm PST). And if you need extra time, there is a second time block allocated from 3pm - 5pm PST. CodeGrade submissions cannot be accepted beyond this time. Set up CodeGrade before you start coding to avoid common problems._

## Introduction

In this challenge you will be working from the `Lambda Eats` homepage to create a functional `Pizza?` button that leads to a build your own pizza custom form.

You may use the following wireframes (also in a folder above) as guidance as you design your site but it is not required that you do so.

[Form](https://tk-assets.lambdaschool.com/d43783ef-e6a8-4154-ba68-430e2275fddc_Form.png)

[Home Page](https://tk-assets.lambdaschool.com/ed737cf5-723e-428d-9b25-192143c8b71f_HomePage.png)

[Confirmation](https://tk-assets.lambdaschool.com/a0f43a34-9fab-4d2b-89f7-e23b22d32964_Pizza.gif)

### Commits

Commit your code regularly and meaningfully. This helps both you (in case you ever need to return to old code for any number of reasons) and your team lead as the evaluate your solution.

## Interview Questions

Demonstrate your understanding of this week's concepts by answering the following free-form questions. Edit this document to include your answers after each question.

1. In 1-2 sentences, explain what React's `useRouteMatch` hook is used for.
1. How would you explain form validation to someone who has never programmed before?
1. In 1-2 sentences, define end to end testing.

## Instructions

### Task 1: Project Set Up

- [ ] Create a forked copy of this project
- [ ] Add your team lead as collaborator on Github
- [ ] Clone your OWN version of the repository (Not Lambda's by mistake!)
- [ ] Create a new branch: `git checkout -b <firstName-lastName>`
- [ ] Implement the project on your newly created `<firstName-lastName>` branch, committing changes regularly
- [ ] Push commits: `git push origin <firstName-lastName>`

### Task 2: Project Requirements

Your finished project must include all of the following requirements:

- [ ] A homepage that has a "/" route and links to your form (button, nav bar, or any other type of link is acceptable but must have an id of "order-pizza")
- [ ] A order form that has a "/pizza" route and shows the form
- [ ] A form with an id of "pizza-form"
- [ ] A name text input field with an id of "name-input"
- [ ] Validation for name and the error message is "name must be at least 2 characters" (Use this exact error message to make sure tests pass)
- [ ] A dropdown for pizza size with an id of "size-dropdown"
- [ ] A checklist for toppings - at least 4 (hint: name each separately!)
- [ ] Text input for special instructions with an id of "special-text"
- [ ] An Add to Order button that has an id of "order-button" and that submits form and returns a database record of name, size, toppings and special instructions

Data should look something like
```
{
    name: string,
    size: string,
    topping1: bool,
    topping2: bool,
    special: string,
}
```
where there is a key for name, size and special and they are strings
and
there is a key for each of the toppings and they are booleans
(Note - your payload should look similar to the about data)

#### Testing MVP

Implement the following tests in Cypress:

- [ ] test that you can add text to the box
- [ ] test that you can select multiple toppings
- [ ] test that you can submit the form

In your solution, it is essential that you follow best practices and produce clean and professional results. You will be scored on your adherence to proper code style and good organization. Schedule time to review, refine, and assess your work and perform basic professional polishing including spell-checking and grammar-checking on your work. It is better to submit a challenge that meets MVP than one that attempts too much and does not.

### Task 3: Stretch Goals

After finishing your required elements, you can push your work further. These goals may or may not be things you have learned in this module but they build on the material you just studied. Time allowing, stretch your limits and see if you can deliver on the following optional goals:

- [ ] Toggle form component for gluten free crust
- [ ] Turn form element sections into nested routes
- [ ] Test more of the application with Cypress
- [ ] Build UI for the eventuality of a network error when POSTing the order
- [ ] Add functionality to your order button that it leads to a Congrats! Pizza is on it's way! page **and** returns a database record of the whole order

## FAQs

**How do I return a database record of the order?**

One of your goals is to return a database record of the order - for this you'll need to write a post request. For more detailed steps, use the below:

1. Create a new state
2. Post to [reqres](https://reqres.in/) with `axios`
3. Log data in console
4. The URL you should use is `https://reqres.in/api/orders`. The tests are based on this URL.

## Submission format

Follow these steps for completing your project.

Set up your fork on Github to [submit via Codegrade](https://www.notion.so/lambdaschool/Submitting-an-assignment-via-Code-Grade-A-Step-by-Step-Walkthrough-07bd65f5f8364e709ecb5064735ce374), pushing commits to your `<firstName-lastName>` branch.
- [ ] Your code will be reviewed over the next few days. Read [these instructions](https://www.notion.so/How-to-View-Feedback-in-CodeGrade-c5147cee220c4044a25de28bcb6bb54a) to learn how to view feedback in CodeGrade.


test

Commit message:

last push all task are complete, can you please check to see why the last task is incomplete and tell me what am i missing

README.md, after:

# Single Page Applications Sprint Challenge

**Read these instructions carefully. Understand exactly what is expected _before_ starting this Sprint Challenge.**

This challenge allows you to practice the concepts and techniques learned over the past sprint and apply them in a concrete project. This sprint explored **single page applications**. During this sprint, you studied **routing, forms, and testing in cypress**. In your challenge this week, you will demonstrate your mastery of these skills by creating **Lambda Eats**, a website designed to bring food to hungry coders.

This is an individual assessment. All work must be your own. Your challenge score is a measure of your ability to work independently using the material covered through this sprint. You need to demonstrate proficiency in the concepts and objectives introduced and practiced in preceding days.

You are not allowed to collaborate during the sprint challenge. However, you are encouraged to follow the twenty-minute rule and seek support from your TL if you need direction.

## Full Time Students

_You have until 5pm PST to complete this challenge. The challenge is available from midnight on Thursday. However you should not be coding through the night; rather you can wake up on Friday and start coding at an hour you choose, rather than waiting for a unified start time. Ideally, you will be writing the majority of the code during the time block allocated on your calendar (9am to 1pm PST). And if you need extra time, there is a second time block allocated from 3pm - 5pm PST. CodeGrade submissions cannot be accepted beyond this time. Set up CodeGrade before you start coding to avoid common problems._

## Introduction

In this challenge you will be working from the `Lambda Eats` homepage to create a functional `Pizza?` button that leads to a build your own pizza custom form.

You may use the following wireframes (also in a folder above) as guidance as you design your site but it is not required that you do so.

[Form](https://tk-assets.lambdaschool.com/d43783ef-e6a8-4154-ba68-430e2275fddc_Form.png)

[Home Page](https://tk-assets.lambdaschool.com/ed737cf5-723e-428d-9b25-192143c8b71f_HomePage.png)

[Confirmation](https://tk-assets.lambdaschool.com/a0f43a34-9fab-4d2b-89f7-e23b22d32964_Pizza.gif)

### Commits

Commit your code regularly and meaningfully. This helps both you (in case you ever need to return to old code for any number of reasons) and your team lead as the evaluate your solution.

## Interview Questions

Demonstrate your understanding of this week's concepts by answering the following free-form questions. Edit this document to include your answers after each question.

1. In 1-2 sentences, explain what React's `useRouteMatch` hook is used for.

useRouteMatch is hook that match the current url and we can acces our data without rendering and this is because URL information are stored nside of the React Router props under match

1. How would you explain form validation to someone who has never programmed before?

form validation  is a way to tell the user what they need to to in order to fill out the form correctly. and we can give them some feedback
regarding their mistakes 


1. In 1-2 sentences, define end to end testing.

end to end test is a way that we mimic the useer expriance in our website using script, we are basically testing the web atumaitcally to see if we get what we expected.

## Instructions

### Task 1: Project Set Up

- [ ] Create a forked copy of this project
- [ ] Add your team lead as collaborator on Github
- [ ] Clone your OWN version of the repository (Not Lambda's by mistake!)
- [ ] Create a new branch: `git checkout -b <firstName-lastName>`
- [ ] Implement the project on your newly created `<firstName-lastName>` branch, committing changes regularly
- [ ] Push commits: `git push origin <firstName-lastName>`

### Task 2: Project Requirements

Your finished project must include all of the following requirements:

- [ ] A homepage that has a "/" route and links to your form (button, nav bar, or any other type of link is acceptable but must have an id of "order-pizza")
- [ ] A order form that has a "/pizza" route and shows the form
- [ ] A form with an id of "pizza-form"
- [ ] A name text input field with an id of "name-input"
- [ ] Validation for name and the error message is "name must be at least 2 characters" (Use this exact error message to make sure tests pass)
- [ ] A dropdown for pizza size with an id of "size-dropdown"
- [ ] A checklist for toppings - at least 4 (hint: name each separately!)
- [ ] Text input for special instructions with an id of "special-text"
- [ ] An Add to Order button that has an id of "order-button" and that submits form and returns a database record of name, size, toppings and special instructions

Data should look something like
```
{
    name: string,
    size: string,
    topping1: bool,
    topping2: bool,
    special: string,
}
```
where there is a key for name, size and special and they are strings
and
there is a key for each of the toppings and they are booleans
(Note - your payload should look similar to the about data)

#### Testing MVP

Implement the following tests in Cypress:

- [ ] test that you can add text to the box
- [ ] test that you can select multiple toppings
- [ ] test that you can submit the form

In your solution, it is essential that you follow best practices and produce clean and professional results. You will be scored on your adherence to proper code style and good organization. Schedule time to review, refine, and assess your work and perform basic professional polishing including spell-checking and grammar-checking on your work. It is better to submit a challenge that meets MVP than one that attempts too much and does not.

### Task 3: Stretch Goals

After finishing your required elements, you can push your work further. These goals may or may not be things you have learned in this module but they build on the material you just studied. Time allowing, stretch your limits and see if you can deliver on the following optional goals:

- [ ] Toggle form component for gluten free crust
- [ ] Turn form element sections into nested routes
- [ ] Test more of the application with Cypress
- [ ] Build UI for the eventuality of a network error when POSTing the order
- [ ] Add functionality to your order button that it leads to a Congrats! Pizza is on it's way! page **and** returns a database record of the whole order

## FAQs

**How do I return a database record of the order?**

One of your goals is to return a database record of the order - for this you'll need to write a post request. For more detailed steps, use the below:

1. Create a new state
2. Post to [reqres](https://reqres.in/) with `axios`
3. Log data in console
4. The URL you should use is `https://reqres.in/api/orders`. The tests are based on this URL.

## Submission format

Follow these steps for completing your project.

Set up your fork on Github to [submit via Codegrade](https://www.notion.so/lambdaschool/Submitting-an-assignment-via-Code-Grade-A-Step-by-Step-Walkthrough-07bd65f5f8364e709ecb5064735ce374), pushing commits to your `<firstName-lastName>` branch.
- [ ] Your code will be reviewed over the next few days. Read [these instructions](https://www.notion.so/How-to-View-Feedback-in-CodeGrade-c5147cee220c4044a25de28bcb6bb54a) to learn how to view feedback in CodeGrade.


test
